# Pathfinder
This particular branch is mainly for the development of fully hardware Dijkstra algorithm, it contains some additional simulation and other artifact files for this part of the project that are not pushed to the [main](https://github.com/Diegovano/pathfinder/tree/main) branch. 

The other features of the project, including A* and Hybrid Dijkstra are not suppported by the synthesis files on this branch.

## File Organisation 

### Hardware

the hardware Verilog code, including associated testbenches and logic Modelsim simulation project
 
* [Dijkstra_float](/hardware/Dijkstra_float/) is  the final version of the Full Hardware dijkstra algorithm. Supports floating point operation and DMA read and write to the edge cache 
* [Dijkstra_no_mem_access](/hardware/Dijkstra_no_mem_access/) is a working model of the hardware which doesn't support DMA and works on fixed point numbers.
* [Dijkstra](/hardware/Dijkstra/) is an earlier artifact of the system which does not work. The way of handling and accessing the memory in this initial version was not functioning on our FPGA platform. It is kept as there is the possibility to add interupt interfaces for this to function as a future work, and this particular version uses a smaller edge cache which saves resources.

for more specific details on the function of each module, please see further [documentation](/hardware/Dijkstra_float/Full_HWDijkstra_modules.md) here.

### Quartus

The Quartus Project, mainly relating to synthesis. The specific file generated by platform designer for Full Hardware Dijkstra is this [tcl](/quartus/dijkstra32_float_hw.tcl) file.


### Software

All software files, this includes Python prototyping, `C` code for execution on NIOS. Specific NIOS `C` Code for testing the HW Dijkstra can be found in this NIOS [project](/software/float). Some of the code are specifically written to bypass known problems in hardware. These issue are further dicussed in [known_problems.md](/known_problems.md).

## Commit Messages

Try to use `feat: xxx` where xxx is a description of what the feature is. Try to use imperative tone, for example: "Add a new feature", rather than indicative "Added a new feature". I think the reason for this convention is, amongst many factors, that this fits better when appending commit messages to make a changelog.

There are other variations possible, such as `fix: xxx` or `docs: xxx` which you can use. I do not know much about other message prefixes.

Try to keep commit names short but descriptive so that if something breaks we can easily find which commit to go back to.

During developement you can locally make as many commits as you like, but before pushing, you can do an interactive rebase to squash commits together in to fewer commits. This can help make the working tree cleaner.

Finally, remember to pull before commiting. If you forget and the push is rejected, try `git pull -r` which will rebase the missing commits without creating a spurious branch.

Any questions, please ask me (Diego).

## Credits

the original verilog used for this part of the project is thanks to the work done on this [repository](https://github.com/Property404/dijkstra-verilog/tree/master)
